---
id: 575cea70-6407-4e9d-a3cc-b9ab6bb55f33
blueprint: post
title: 'Twitter Break'
tags:
  - focus
  - productivity
  - twitter
updated_by: 97c59bba-acb7-406d-9278-abc37e3f76a9
updated_at: 1614643200
---
Around the end of January, I decided to take a break from Twitter for an undetermined amount of time. Twitter was my main source of distraction, and I wanted to find out how much it affects my productivity.

<!--more-->

## What I didn't miss

**Filling every gap in my time with scrolling through Twitter.** I do believe going without Twitter improved my focus throughout the day. Whenever I saw I wasn't logged in to Twitter, I returned to the whatever I was working on sooner.

There's still more than enough distraction (newspapers, Hacker News, email,…) to fill the void. Getting rid of Twitter is just a small piece of it.

**Drama and pointless discussions.** I'm rarely part of hefty discussions, but not seeing them at all for a month made me feel a lot lighter.

**Staying in the loop on content.** I expected to lose track of interesting content without Twitter as a portal. It turns out most good stuff ends up in my inbox through newsletters anyway. There's also RSS to fill the gaps.

**I'm a lot less informed about world news (the US specifically)**  I'm reading the local newspaper more often. That informs me about what's happening around me instead of other corners of the world.

## What I missed

**Fun.** It turns out, Twitter is my favorite spot for non-serious content and banter. These interactions aren't replaceable by newsletters, RSS, or other platforms. Since Twitter is the only social media platform I actively participate in, I missed this.

**A platform for questions and sharing.** Twitter is amazing for collective knowledge. It's amazing that I can ask thousands of developers for guidance by posting a question. The same applies to the other way: it gives me a huge audience to share what I'm working on.

## Moving forward

I'm glad I took a break, but I'm happy to be back. In the next few weeks, I'll do a major following cleanup, refocussing my stream towards things I really enjoy and more local accounts.